README.md, before:

# BPI-R4_OpenWrt_mtk-feeds_Build

Build with the latest Openwrt kernels and the latest mtk-openwrt-feeds...

This is my latest build script which incorperates the "rsync" function to improve the handling of scripts and patches. I've also include a new option to clone the main repos from a local repo. 

## **To build with the latest kernel and mtk-openwrt-feeds**

1. You can change branches "openwrt-24.10" , "master" , "main" etc...

2. If you want to build with the latest openwrt-24.10 kernels and the latest mtk commits leave both OPENWRT_COMMIT="" & MTK_FEEDS_COMMIT="" empty.

3. If you want to target a specific commit use the full commit hash e.g... OPENWRT_COMMIT="b4b9288f2aa3dd1a759e5effbc8378f614bd5755"

4. I've add an optional function to clone from a local repo instead of pointing to the openwrt or mtk-openwrt-feeds repos to clone.
	 * saves a lot of time when testing but it's optional, default will clone from the online repos
	 * I've added a new repo with a small shell script to automate the updating of both "openwrt" and "mtk-openwrt-feeds" local repositories, to keep them up to date.

5. Added two new directories to place all patches and files into, one for "openwrt-patches" and the other for all "mtk-patches" 
	 * Inside each direcory you drop in all your patches corresponding to the target (openwrt or mtk)
	 * Inside each directory there is two files "openwrt-add-patch" and "openwrt-remove"
	 * To add or remove a file or patch just enter the full target path into the file - target/linux/generic/backport-6.6/999-some.patch
	 * The cp -f function works likes this.. "Some-Makefile:package/base-files/Makefile"
	 * The mkdir -p function works like this.. Add the tree with the new dir  "Some-script.sh:files/etc/uci-defaults/new.sh" or "files/etc/uci-defaults/new.sh" in the correct add file.
	 * The script will search each of the files at the start of the build and process all entries applying them to the targets.. (or removing them)
	 
6. You can use custom config files and scripts. 
	 * Add any custom wireless, network config files to "/files/etc/config/" directory and it will be included into the built image.
	 * Add any custom uci-defaults script into "openwrt-patches/files/etc/uci-defaults/" and it will be built into the image.

7. Added an option at the end of a successfully build, that will prompt the usre if they want to enter into "make menuconfig".. 
	 * When prompted either enter (yes/no): The default is 'no' or let it time out after 10 seconds and it will continue and existing the script.
	 * If 'yes' enter into the make menuconfig and make the changes you need and save, it will continue the build process and build a new images with your custom changes.

8. Error Checks - All scripts and patches will be auto chacked with dos2unix and corrected if needed. 

9. Permissions - All scripts, patches and folders used will have the correct permissins applied during the build process.

## **How to Use**

1. **Prerequisites**: Ensure you have a compatible build environment, such as **Ubuntu 24.04 LTS**. You will also need to install `dos2unix` & `rsync`:  
   `sudo apt update` 
   
   `sudo apt install build-essential clang flex bison g++ gawk gcc-multilib g++-multilib gettext git libncurses5-dev libssl-dev python3-setuptools swig unzip zlib1g-dev file wget dos2unix rsync`

2. **Clone repo**:

   `git clone https://github.com/Gilly1970/BPI-R4_OpenWrt_mtk-feeds_Build.git`
   
   `sudo chmod 775 -R BPI-R4_OpenWrt_mtk-feeds_Build`

3. **Run the Script**:  
   * Make the script executable:  
     `chmod +x mtk-openwrt_build.sh`
     
   * Execute the script:  
     `./mtk-openwrt_build.sh`
	 
### **For latest compiled bpi-r4 sysupgradeb/sdcard images can be downloaded from mediafire..**

Images with the eeprom patch applied..
Images for BE14 with the eeprom issue - https://www.mediafire.com/file/4qtkr38l5xugzyk/BPI_R4_Images-with-no-eeprom-fix-22.09.2025.zip

Standard images with no eeprom patched..
Images for BE14 without the eeprom issue - https://www.mediafire.com/file/qye0a8pok8tv0iy/BPI_R4_Images-with-eeprom-fix-22.09.2025.zip

## **Notes**

Updated patch to "0130-mtk-mt76-mt7996-fix-kernel-6.104-EEPROM-0s.patch" 

Mediatek are now deleting all patches in the "openwrt/package/kernel/mt76/patches/" directory, unless they follow the correct mtk patch format. I've renamed this patch to follow this new format which stops it from being auto removed from the build.

Commit message:

Update script and new EEPROM-0s-bin.patch

README.md, after:

# BPI-R4_OpenWrt_mtk-feeds_Build

Build with the latest Openwrt kernels and the latest mtk-openwrt-feeds...

This is my latest build script which incorperates the "rsync" function to improve the handling of scripts and patches. I've also include a new option to clone the main repos from a local repo. 

## **To build with the latest kernel and mtk-openwrt-feeds**

1. You can change branches "openwrt-24.10" , "master" , "main" etc...

2. If you want to build with the latest openwrt-24.10 kernels and the latest mtk commits leave both OPENWRT_COMMIT="" & MTK_FEEDS_COMMIT="" empty.

3. If you want to target a specific commit use the full commit hash e.g... OPENWRT_COMMIT="b4b9288f2aa3dd1a759e5effbc8378f614bd5755"

4. I've add an optional function to clone from a local repo instead of pointing to the openwrt or mtk-openwrt-feeds repos to clone.
	 * saves a lot of time when testing but it's optional, default will clone from the online repos
	 * I've added a new repo with a small shell script to automate the updating of both "openwrt" and "mtk-openwrt-feeds" local repositories, to keep them up to date.

5. Added two new directories to place all patches and files into, one for "openwrt-patches" and the other for all "mtk-patches" 
	 * Inside each direcory you drop in all your patches corresponding to the target (openwrt or mtk)
	 * Inside each directory there is two files "openwrt-add-patch" and "openwrt-remove"
	 * To add or remove a file or patch just enter the full target path into the file - target/linux/generic/backport-6.6/999-some.patch
	 * The cp -f function works likes this.. "Some-Makefile:package/base-files/Makefile"
	 * The mkdir -p function works like this.. Add the tree with the new dir  "Some-script.sh:files/etc/uci-defaults/new.sh" or "files/etc/uci-defaults/new.sh" in the correct add file.
	 * The script will search each of the files at the start of the build and process all entries applying them to the targets.. (or removing them)
	 
6. You can use custom config files and scripts. 
	 * Add any custom wireless, network config files to "/files/etc/config/" directory and it will be included into the built image.
	 * Add any custom uci-defaults script into "openwrt-patches/files/etc/uci-defaults/" and it will be built into the image.

7. Added an option at the end of a successfully build, that will prompt the usre if they want to enter into "make menuconfig".. 
	 * When prompted either enter (yes/no): The default is 'no' or let it time out after 10 seconds and it will continue and existing the script.
	 * If 'yes' enter into the make menuconfig and make the changes you need and save, it will continue the build process and build a new images with your custom changes.

8. Error Checks - All scripts and patches will be auto chacked with dos2unix and corrected if needed. 

9. Permissions - All scripts, patches and folders used will have the correct permissins applied during the build process.

## **How to Use**

1. **Prerequisites**: Ensure you have a compatible build environment, such as **Ubuntu 24.04 LTS**. You will also need to install `dos2unix` & `rsync`:  
   `sudo apt update` 
   
   `sudo apt install build-essential clang flex bison g++ gawk gcc-multilib g++-multilib gettext git libncurses5-dev libssl-dev python3-setuptools swig unzip zlib1g-dev file wget dos2unix rsync`

2. **Clone repo**:

   `git clone https://github.com/Gilly1970/BPI-R4_OpenWrt_mtk-feeds_Build.git`
   
   `sudo chmod 775 -R BPI-R4_OpenWrt_mtk-feeds_Build`

3. **Run the Script**:  
   * Make the script executable:  
     `chmod +x mtk-openwrt_build.sh`
     
   * Execute the script:  
     `./mtk-openwrt_build.sh`
	 
### **For latest compiled bpi-r4 sysupgradeb/sdcard images can be downloaded from mediafire..**

Images with the eeprom patch applied..
Images for BE14 with the eeprom issue - https://www.mediafire.com/file/4qtkr38l5xugzyk/BPI_R4_Images-with-no-eeprom-fix-22.09.2025.zip

Standard images with no eeprom patched..
Images for BE14 without the eeprom issue - https://www.mediafire.com/file/qye0a8pok8tv0iy/BPI_R4_Images-with-eeprom-fix-22.09.2025.zip

## **Notes**

I will no longer be making patches for the duplicated ports issue. The updated script now handles this automatically during the build process and a patch is no longer need when using this script. (hopefully a permanent fix will come from MediaTek)

The current driver bug and setting the tx power value is still causing the 255 dBm (2147483647 mW) value to populate into the drop down menu. This bug also effects BE14 cards with good eeproms as well, not just the cards that contain 0s.

For those with the bad BE14 cards that contain 0s. I've extracted the eeprom.bin from my good BE14 card which my latest patch now uses instead of the default fallback eeprom.bin that comes with the mt79 drivers. The default driver bin file is generic and is only there as a fallback solution not a permanent one. It doesn't contain all the necessary calibration code from an actual BE14 eeprom itself. So I thought this approach might be a better long term solution over the current generic one. Still trialling this new approach but until the current 255 dBm (2147483647 mW) bug is fixed. With the proper eeprom.bin you can now set the tx power values on all three channels, you just need to reboot after setting them.

Script is updated to compile the new patch, if you don't need it then just remove the relevant entries from the openwrt-add-patch and mtk-add-patch files.

If you want to test this new patch without using this script.. 

1. bpi-r4-eeprom.bin
   mkdir -p openwrt/package/firmware/bpi-r4-eeprom-data/files
   cp openwrt/package/firmware/bpi-r4-eeprom-data/files/bpi-r4-eeprom.bin

2. epprom.bin_Makefile
   rename "epprom.bin_Makefile to Makefile
   cp package/firmware/bpi-r4-eeprom-data/Makefile

3. 0131-mtk-mt76-mt7996-fix-kernel-6.106-EEPROM-0s-bin.patch
   cp autobuild/unified/filogic/mac80211/24.10/files/package/kernel/mt76/patches/0131-mtk-mt76-mt7996-fix-kernel-6.106-EEPROM-0s-bin.patch

4. CONFIG_PACKAGE_bpi-r4-eeprom-data=y
   Add "CONFIG_PACKAGE_bpi-r4-eeprom-data=y" into your defconfig before compiling.
